# 1.1. Why Reflex was discontinued

---
### ⚡️ TL;DR — No time; unexpected speculative removal from SpigotMC.
---

Developing an anticheat is literally playing a cat and mouse game: ingenious cheat developers, seeing and disliking the fact that the cheats they develop are starting to be detected and blocked, are spending a lot of *time* to come up with crafty ideas of circumventing the current detection techniques; then the anticheat devs have to catch up and discover even more creative and tricky ways to detect those new cheats, dedicating even more *time* into that; and then the cycle repeats.

*Time* was the main concern. [I (DarksideCode/German)][dev-german], who was mainly responsible for most of the actual anticheating part, started the project in my spare time. I loved doing what I did, and it was kinda like just a small hobby, but as the project was growing ang gaining attention, I had to start putting more and more effort in it. At some point, that started clashing severely with my studies; I then also got a job (initially, also to develop a private anticheat), and so I simply started running out of time. I've never tried advertising Reflex more aggressively or adding more "good selling" features like many other developers dead, because I simply didn't really care that much. But that also resulted in the fact that Reflex didn't produce that much revenue, in reality. It's not to complain, but at some point I decided to spend even less time on it because "it's not so important". 

And one day I saw someone in our Discord's *#talk* asking something like "where's Reflex?" — and that was the moment I realized it was deleted from SpigotMC. I still had plans on keeping the project up, I was still planning about updating it some time, the day before. *"Just a bit later"*, I thought. In my opinion, though, Reflex was deleted from the platform too early; especially given that it was a pretty big project with over a thousand customers. I didn't even get any warning. And I knew that projects are normally moved to the *InactiveResource* author before being deleted, so I did occasionally check if it's not too late. But surprise-surprise. There are plugins that haven't been updated for even longer, but still weren't deleted at that date. One can produce many speculations here, but one that we believe in our team could be simply tied to the world events that started happening close to that date **(March 2022)** and the fact that I'm Russian.

Everybody in the dev team was really upset at the day. But, again, since I haven't had that much spare time, and, in fact, was extremely busy with my university studies and new job at that moment, I just didn't feel like doing anything. I believed that just giving up on everything was a bad idea, but I also didn't want to do something real, like moving to another platform and continueing the project from there. There were also other factors that influenced my final decision, such as the code base being pretty old and hardly maintainable, and me already having some anticheat-related work in another place. As the result, a decision was made to fully discontinue the Reflex Anticheat project.

Since Reflex was still quite in demand, and simply shutting it down could affect a lot of servers running there; as well as to help new servers and admins looking for a good anticheat, we decided to release Reflex for free for everyone. A promise was made to do that soon at that time, but, again, due to the lack of time and simply my stupidity in some aspects, this event was delayed this much, for which I'm extremely sorry!

But anyway, it was much fun working on Reflex Anticheat and talking to all of our customers and community members, and we really appreciate the fact that many of you are still interested in the project and keep asking about it every now and then! Thank you all for this awesome journey!






---

## 📄 License

[Reflex Anticheat Internals][reflex-anticheat-internals] © 2023 by Reflex Development Team: [DarksideCode (German)][dev-german], [sinnlosername (Florian)][dev-florian], [StevenKGER (Steven)][dev-steven], Manic97 (Michael) is licensed under [CC BY 4.0][license]. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

[license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0

[reflex-anticheat-internals]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/reflex-anticheat-internals

[dev-german]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa

[dev-florian]: https://github.com/sinnlosername

[dev-steven]: https://github.com/StevenKGER

---

## [🏠 Return to main page][reflex-anticheat-internals]

---


