# 1.2. The current state of Reflex and the dev team

---
### TL;DR — Anticheat is not updated. New materials may be published in this repository if you ask. Still answering questions and talking to the community. Most Reflex's anticheating techniques are still relevant.
---

Reflex has been released for free. Anyone can use it on their servers and share it however they like. We're additionally sharing a lot of under-the-hood details so that the developers/maintainers of modern, still alive anticheats can maybe incorporate some ideas in their works. We believe that this way the entire Minecraft community can benefit from what we've been doing for the last few years.

We are not going to continue developing Reflex anymore. Even no critical updates. 

We are not releasing the entire source code, either. There's a number of reasons for that, including the fact that the sources aren't of the "best" quality and may be hard to maintain, and because some of them have been incorporated in the anticheat that [I'm][dev-german] privately developing for a server now. Anyway, we've still released what we believe is quite enough for the community to use.

But the team isn't dead right now, and isn't "dying fully" anytime soon. **[Our Discord server][discord]** is still alive, and this repository welcomes any **issues** or **pull requests**. That said, if you believe that the released data is missing something crucial, or you just have general questions or anything to ask about Reflex or us, feel free to let us know, and we'll try to answer soon! This repository isn't exhaustive, and we may be updating it with new publications, if needed. Just tell us what you'd like to see!




### But wait — if checks' details are now public, aren't they all instantly useless? Hackers will read them and bypass everything!

No, not really.

Firstly, there is an unholy number of hacked clients and injectable cheats that are no longer maintained, but still used by a bunch of people. These will obviously remain detected by Reflex forever. And, believe it or not, the number of cheaters who still rely on those outdated hacks is surprising!

Secondly, Reflex didn't rely on the so-called **[security through obscurity][security-through-obscurity]** principles. Yes, there *are* some checks that do. But many of Reflex's techniques might be tricky to bypass even though their implementation details and code snippets are published and explained.

Thirdly, we hope that some of the active anticheat developers will not just grab what we published, but understand how and why our methods work (and why they sometimes don't), and use them as an inspiration to create new, more advanced and thorough anticheat solutions that cover the holes that our publications might have exposed.









## License

[Reflex Anticheat Internals][reflex-anticheat-internals] © 2023 by Reflex Development Team: [DarksideCode (German)][dev-german], [sinnlosername (Florian)][dev-florian], [StevenKGER (Steven)][dev-steven], Manic97 (Michael) is licensed under [CC BY 4.0][license]. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

[license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0

[reflex-anticheat-internals]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/reflex-anticheat-internals

[dev-german]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa

[dev-florian]: https://github.com/sinnlosername

[dev-steven]: https://github.com/StevenKGER

## [Return to main page][reflex-anticheat-internals]





[discord]: https://go.reflex.rip/discord

[security-through-obscurity]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_through_obscurity



