# 3.1. Prerequisites

---
### ⚡️ TL;DR — See [Reflex Wiki][reflex-wiki] first. Having some good anticheating experience will help.
---



### ℹ️ General

What we publish isn't expected to be easily understood by an unprepared reader. This is more of a set of "recommendations" and "inspirations" for experienced developers of anticheat software, or just for some of you who are way, way too curious *(I'm looking at you, Wronger!)*.

Take everything written within the published materials with a grain of salt. Reflex has never been a flawless anticheat. It's just that we believe that it was a good one. Good enough to inspire some talented members of the cheating and anticheating community, and make hacking in Minecraft harder and less accessible. That being said, please pay attention to all you read and bear in mind that all checks and statements may have issues and serious mistakes. Some parts of the anticheat may even cause the "Why does this .... even work?!" feeling, and that's.. OK, I guess? This is not a "how to create an awesome anticheat" tutorial. This is just something that we believe might have some value for some people.

If you're familiar with the Reflex Anticheat, and perhaps used it on your servers, played with its configuration, and ever talked to the dev team, then you should probably be good to go already. Otherwise, **we encourage you to familiarize with [the official Reflex Wiki][reflex-wiki]** first — it contains a lot of useful information that will not be repeated here, but may sometimes be referenced.





### 📐 Fix your angles

In quite many open source or unobfuscated anticheats I often see people make angle comparisons like `if (abs(oldYaw - newYaw) > 1.0) ...`. **This is wrong for 99.9% cases.** Angles in Minecraft (and particularly, although not only, Bukkit) aren't always within the [0;360] (or [-180;180]) range. For example, the difference between an angle of `5.0` degrees and an angle of `368.0` degrees is (normally) expected to be `-3.0`. Naive, "trigonometry-unaware" calculations will lead to invalid results here, and that will often result in checks randomly not working or misbehaving.

**See [this StackOverflow thread][so-angles], for example.**

In all code snippets and references you'll see in this repository, bear in mind that "angle difference" means the **correct**, "trigonomery-aware", angle difference calculation. In Reflex code, that's usually accomplished with the use of the `angle(x, y)` method.






### 🧩 Common methods

Explaining some commonly repeating parts of Reflex code here.









---

## 📄 License

[Reflex Anticheat Internals][reflex-anticheat-internals] © 2023 by Reflex Development Team: [DarksideCode (German)][dev-german], [sinnlosername (Florian)][dev-florian], [StevenKGER (Steven)][dev-steven], Manic97 (Michael) is licensed under [CC BY 4.0][license]. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

[license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0

[reflex-anticheat-internals]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/reflex-anticheat-internals

[dev-german]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa

[dev-florian]: https://github.com/sinnlosername

[dev-steven]: https://github.com/StevenKGER

---

## [🏠 Return to main page][reflex-anticheat-internals]

---



[so-angles]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1878907/how-can-i-find-the-smallest-difference-between-two-angles-around-a-point





[reflex-wiki]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/ReflexIssueTracker/wiki



