# 3.2.5. Description of the `ka.ray` check

---
### ⚡️ TL;DR — Copy hit ray tracing code from the client and enforce it on the server. Remember that players always see all entities at their older (outdated) positions.
---





> **From [Reflex Wiki][reflex-wiki]:** Raycasts players' attacks to ensure they are mechanically valid, thus acting as a combination of Reach+Angle (Hitbox), Block Raytrace and Entity Raytrace checks (uses packet NPCs for the latter).





### Combine checks


Simpler anticheats usually provide separate checks for what we often refer to as "extremely blatant KillAura":

- a "direction"/"angle" check to ensure the players are looking at their target when attacking,

- a "reach" check to ensure that players can't attack each other 6 miles away,

- a "hit through blocks" check,

- a "hit through other entities" check,

with "names" of the last two expected to be self-explanatory. The issues with this approach are mostly that

- it's difficult to maintain multiple separate checks that actually share much common behaviour,

- they often don't rely on true entities' bounding boxes, and when they do, they start sharing even more behaviour,

- they're actually tied to each other and lose effectiveness when decoupled: both entity and block ray tracing require world traversal, and world traversal allows for precise, bounding-box-size-aware range calculation.

More robust anticheats, including Reflex, use an all-in-one check for all of that.

The Minecraft client actually already does this all. The thing is, cheaters just "remove" or "ignore" it. What we basically do is almost "copy" (or, perhaps, you can also literally copy) that code and enforce the same checks on the server side.






### Respect latency

One major problem that remains is that the client *always* displays outdated positions of all entities on the screen. This is for multiple reasons:

1. **Simply ping.** It takes time for a packet that contains the fresh new entity position to be delivered from the server to the client, which are often many hundreds or even thousands kilometers away. On may servers, the average ping is about 50-100 milliseconds. And the server ideally ticks once every 50 milliseconds. This means that while the delivery guy is handing you, the client, an updated position of an entity, the server might have already updated its position 1-2 more times.

2. **Interpolation.** [Here is a literally obligatory article to read][gaffer-interp]. There's also a plenty of other useful resources on networkin in games on the linked website which you should definitely take a look at! But in short, the client *purposefully* renders entities at "fake" positions — where they've actually been quite some time ago — to provide smoother experience, especially for those of us with slower connections.

3. **Lazy server.** The Minecraft server is often not sending new positions of entities immediately after it got to know them. It may wait a few ticks before broadcasting the update. This is mostly just to save network bandwidth and CPU usage.

With this in mind, it's obvious that if a player suddenly attacks a zombie 3.1 blocks away from server's perspective, it doesn't necessarily mean that they're cheating. From player's perspective, it's most likely that the said zombie is about only 2.8 blocks away.

One could easily solve the problem by expanding all entities' hitboxes by a large amount, but that will result in most cheats, even like 4.0 or higher Reach, being undetected.

Some proper lag accounting helps here. We didn't go much far here in Reflex and there's a lot of room for improvement, but what we do in our RayCast KillAura check is: track when the server sends position updates for each of the entities to each client, and save some of the most recent of those (as well as entity's complete hitbox) in a buffer. When a player attempts to make an attack, do the raytracing with all positions and hitboxes in the buffer, and if at least one of the checks is "passed", the hit is considered legitimate.






### Special entity raytracing checking (The "Front Entity" Check)

Love it or hate it, Reflex still uses NPC/bot checks. They're in fact still pretty effective and annoying for the cheaters (and not so for the players).

Without going too deep into our "Forcefield" check, which just spawns a bunch of different, player-like bots around the player, let's say that the check is bypassable. Our particular check might be a little trickier than many others due to how "natural" some of the bots look, but for now let's focus on the simplest circumvention technique ever created: "let KillAura ignore and not attack invisibles".

What Reflex does to overcome this simplest bypass is that it spawns a few (usually 2) invisible bots, close to each other, between the player and their current target. These bots are "pierceable" (thanks to the close interaction with the rest of the RayCast check). If a legit player just clicks their mouse button to attack their target, they'll instead hit one of the invisible "front entities". Reflex would register that hit, think the player is "probably legit", and pass the hit forward, to player's intended target. However, some KillAuras with simple AntiBots will simply hit the visible target straight through the bots. Reflex registers such hits as "suspicious", and when there are many of them, the player is almost certainly blatantly cheating.







---

## ⚖️ License

[Reflex Anticheat Internals][reflex-anticheat-internals] © 2023 by Reflex Development Team ([DarksideCode (German)][dev-german], [sinnlosername (Florian)][dev-florian], [StevenKGER (Steven)][dev-steven], and others) is licensed under [CC BY 4.0][license]. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

[license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0

[reflex-anticheat-internals]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/reflex-anticheat-internals

[dev-german]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa

[dev-florian]: https://github.com/sinnlosername

[dev-steven]: https://github.com/StevenKGER

---

## [🏠 Return to main page][reflex-anticheat-internals]

---








[reflex-wiki]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/ReflexIssueTracker/wiki

[gaffer-interp]: https://gafferongames.com/post/snapshot_interpolation/

