# 3.3.3. Analyze packets instead of events when possible

---
### ⚡️ TL;DR — Usually, packet-driven checks are more accurate and stable for lagging players than Bukkit-event-driven checks.
---








When a player isn't lagging, they're usually sending about 20 move packets per second (1 per tick). For the server, this means that it receives (on average) 1 move packet from each player every (its own) tick. And every server tick, Bukkit sort of compares the current position of a player (in this tick) with their last position (in last tick). And if they differ at least a little, a `PlayerMoveEvent` is broadcast for all plugins to handle.

Problems arise when players are experiencing lag. For example, consider a legit player that lost connection for just 1-2 seconds. They will not be disconnected from the server, as Minecraft allows for up to about 30 seconds "connection pause". But player's client doesn't exactly "know" that they're disconnected at the moment, and the client will keep sending all packets according to the game protocol. That is, during those 1-2 seconds, the player has probably tried to send about 20-40 packets (lets say those are just "rotate head" packets for the sake of simplicity), but those packets didn't arrive in time.

When connections is reestablished, the game continues as usual. But what will happen to those 20-40 "lost" packets? Games often use the UDP protocol, which means they'll be permanently lost, and all "actions" the player tried to do in the last 1-2 seconds will be undone. But Minecraft Java Edition uses TCP. This means that it will send all those 20-40 lost packets in a bunch, like firing from a shotgun.

The server will then receive all those lost packets and process them. Let's say the packets looked like this:

1. rotate head horizontally to the right by 1 degree,

2. ...another 1 degree,

3. ...now to the left 0.5 degrees,

4. ...

Bukkit won't really care about the number of packets received, and will fire just one `PlayerMoveEvent` regardless. That event will contain changes from all those lost packets accumulated into one big move. In the above example, if we consider just the first 3 lost packets, the player move event will only tell us about one yaw rotation of size `1+1-0.5 = 1.5` degrees.

For most tasks, that doesn't really matter, and sometimes that's even more convenient. But for an anticheat, this is a disaster. For example, an Aimbot check based on tracking player's rotations over time can start producing weird results (including false positives), because it would be analyzing almost meaningless data. That's like you were just analyzing players' rotations sum every few seconds, in this case, which really hardly carries any useful information.

This can cause even more problems in cases when you rely on the order of player's actions.

In Reflex, most checks are based on packets instead. We use **[ProtocolLib][plib]** to listen to incoming and outgoing packet events, and extract the (generally) more accurate data from packets we observe from there. This allows many of our checks to make correct decisions even for lagging players (well, most of the time).

Note that working with packets might be more tricky than with events. There are some more modern and easy to use libraries for packet access than **ProtocolLib**, and you should probably take a look at them. And if you'd like to stick to the older, "classic" methods, this website might help — it contains a lot of useful information about the Minecraft protocol: **https://wiki.vg/**






---

## ⚖️ License

[Reflex Anticheat Internals][reflex-anticheat-internals] © 2023 by Reflex Development Team ([DarksideCode (German)][dev-german], [sinnlosername (Florian)][dev-florian], [StevenKGER (Steven)][dev-steven], and others) is licensed under [CC BY 4.0][license]. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

[license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0

[reflex-anticheat-internals]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/reflex-anticheat-internals

[dev-german]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa

[dev-florian]: https://github.com/sinnlosername

[dev-steven]: https://github.com/StevenKGER

---

## [🏠 Return to main page][reflex-anticheat-internals]

---








[reflex-wiki]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/ReflexIssueTracker/wiki

[plib]: https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/protocollib.1997/

