# 3.3.2. Description of the `badpcks.spf` check

---
### ⚡️ TL;DR — Abuse inventory `Transaction` packets for manual pinging.
---




> **From [Reflex Wiki][reflex-wiki]:** [LEGACY — No longer needed due to Reflex's new Lag Points system] Detects ping spoofing cheats.






Although Reflex itself is resistant to in-game ping/latency spoofing cheats, we still decided to keep our legacy PingSpoof check in place to aid other anticheats which actually did (and, even today, still often do) rely on ping calculated with `KeepAlive` packets. 

PingSpoof hacks (those that render one's ping as, say, "0 ms" or "9999 ms") are often used as so-called "disablers" — they force many anticheats to just not analyze the user's behaviour, thus evading many checks in the first place. We don't recommend anticheat developers and server owners to rely on the ping numbers the game provides to give players any anticheat leniency. Reflex's PingSpoof check does a good job at catching the vast majority of PingSpoof hacks (and pretty quickly — usually within 20-40 seconds), but it can be bypassed without too much effort.

Precautions ahead, let's discuss the idea, which is extremely simple. Minecraft utilizes a `Transaction` packet, which exists both on the server side and on the client side. Every such packet has a unique identifier number. And the server can send such a packet in a way that will force the client to respond. And also these packets can actually be exchanged whenever you wish — they aren't bound to inventory as they probably should be.

Sounds familiar? That's almost what `KeepAlive` packets are! A server can send a `Transaction` packet to the client in the following (or similar) way:

```java
PacketContainer transPacket = new PacketContainer(Packets.OUT_TRANSACTION);
short tid = (short) ((short) random.nextInt(Short.MAX_VALUE) * (random.nextBoolean() ? 1 : -1));

transPacket.getBytes().writeSafely(0, (byte) 0); // wiki.vg may say it's "int" -- don't listen, it's "byte"
transPacket.getShorts().writeSafely(0, tid); // unique id
transPacket.getBooleans().writeSafely(0, false); // force the client to respond ("don't ignore")
```

The client will *have* to respond. This allows you to do two things on your choice:

1. Pretend the keep-alive ping just doesn't exist, and everywhere you used that ping, use your all fresh new modern transaction-ping. Fail-proof and not always possible (like you might have difficulties enforcing plugins out of your control, like ConditionalCommands, from using this new type of ping);

2. Track how much the transaction-ping differs from the keep-alive ping. If the difference is quite big for an extended period of time, the player is probably cheating, and you can remove them from the server (which is what we're doing in Reflex as a part of our **BadPackets** check).






---

## 📄 License

[Reflex Anticheat Internals][reflex-anticheat-internals] © 2023 by Reflex Development Team: [DarksideCode (German)][dev-german], [sinnlosername (Florian)][dev-florian], [StevenKGER (Steven)][dev-steven], Manic97 (Michael) is licensed under [CC BY 4.0][license]. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

[license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0

[reflex-anticheat-internals]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/reflex-anticheat-internals

[dev-german]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa

[dev-florian]: https://github.com/sinnlosername

[dev-steven]: https://github.com/StevenKGER

---

## [🏠 Return to main page][reflex-anticheat-internals]

---








[reflex-wiki]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/ReflexIssueTracker/wiki

