# 3.5. Spoofing health to break ESP and KillAura and even crash hacked clients

---
### ⚡️ TL;DR — Intercept server-to-client `EntityMetadata` packets to spoof health of living entities. This will break many cheats, and even cause some to crash.
---







Hacked clients often including checks like `entity.isAlive()` or similar in their ESP, Tracers, NameTags, KillAura, Aimbot, and many other cheats. These checks often come down a to a check like `health > 0f`. This is so that their screen isn't polluted with ESP-boxes of corpses and so that their KillAura doesn't try to attack the dead ones.

However, how does the client know how much health does an entity have? This information comes from the server, incorporated in `EntityMetadata` packets that the server periodically sends for every living entity in the world (when their data changes).

This is already some good news — we already know how to break many cheats. For example, we can break HealthTags cheats (those that show players' health) by just intercepting `EntityMetadata` packets and overwriting the `health` parameter there to `20f` all the time. This way, the client will believe all entities are at full health. And there's nothing hackers can do about this — if the server never sends them the true information about `health` (or whatever else), they can never know it.

Now the cool part is that there aren't any checks that the data supplied with these packets is "valid". Hence, we can also substitute the attributes with, say, `Float.NaN`. Since, by the floating point numbers standard Java is using, every comparison with a NaN results in `false`, all those `isAlive()` checks will fail, and many cheats (ESP, Tracers, KillAura...) in many hacked clients will simply stop working. They just won't be doing anything. Moreover, some clients even do some more special processing of entities' health without validation, causing the client to *crash* when receiving such a "broken" entity metadata.

Below is an example code to construct a fresh `EntityMetadata` packet with `NaN` health and send it to the given player. Notes:

1. This code only works for 1.8.x clients. The trick is still applicable to newer versions, but the code is slightly different. See https://wiki.vg.

2. This is just a proof-of-concept example. In real world, you should be intercepting metadata packets that the server itself sends, instead of sending your own. This is to ensure that players never receive "correct" metadata in the first place.

```java
// This code uses ProtocolLib.

PacketContainer meta = new PacketContainer(PacketType.Play.Server.ENTITY_METADATA);
List<WrappedWatchableObject> objects = new ArrayList<>();
LivingEntity target = /* for which entity we are spoofing the data */;

objects.add(new WrappedWatchableObject(6, Float.NaN)); // fake set health to NaN

meta.getIntegers().write(0, target.getEntityId());
meta.getWatchableCollectionModifier().write(0, objects);

// Send packet [meta] to the player(s) you want...
```







---

## ⚖️ License

[Reflex Anticheat Internals][reflex-anticheat-internals] © 2023 by Reflex Development Team ([DarksideCode (German)][dev-german], [sinnlosername (Florian)][dev-florian], [StevenKGER (Steven)][dev-steven], and others) is licensed under [CC BY 4.0][license]. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

[license]: http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0

[reflex-anticheat-internals]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/reflex-anticheat-internals

[dev-german]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa

[dev-florian]: https://github.com/sinnlosername

[dev-steven]: https://github.com/StevenKGER

---

## [🏠 Return to main page][reflex-anticheat-internals]

---








[reflex-wiki]: https://github.com/MeGysssTaa/ReflexIssueTracker/wiki


